#LyX 1.6.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass letter
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{times,graphics}
\end_preamble
\options times
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout My Address
Department of Biostatistics
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Harvard School of Public Health
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

655 Huntington Avenue
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Boston, MA 02115
\end_layout

\begin_layout Send To Address
Editor, Theory and Methods
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Journal of the American Statistical Association
\end_layout

\begin_layout Opening
To the editor:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am submitting the manuscript entitled "The importance of scale for spatial-con
founding bias and precision of spatial regression estimators" to JASA, Theory
 and Methods.
 The manuscript addresses the performance of regression estimators in the
 presence of residual spatial correlation.
 While such analyses are common in applied statistics, to my knowledge there
 has been little rigorous assessment of the statistical properties of models
 that account for spatial correlation.
 I develop a new framework to consider bias in such models, when the residual
 spatial correlation is induced by an unmeasured confounder, as well as
 assessing the precision of GLS and OLS estimation, showing the critical
 importance of the spatial scales involved, both of the residual and of
 the spatially-varying covariate of interest.
 While the analytic calculations are straightforward, I believe the development
 of the framework and the results shed light on an area about which little
 appears to be known, despite the wide range of problems in which regressions
 with spatial structure are conducted.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Please note that the article contains a number of color figures.
 I could easily convert Figs.
 1, 7, and 8 to black and white (possibly with color versions in the electronic
 version), but I believe that ease of interpretation of Figs.
 2-6 would suffer in black and white as greyscale images are often difficult
 to interpret.
 However, I would be happy to discuss this further if the article were accepted
 for publication.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Also, please note that the research reported in the submitted manuscript
 has been funded, in whole or in part, through the U.S.
 National Institutes of Health, and the article's publication must comply
 with the NIH Public Access Policy.
 It appears that this is satisfied through JASA's policy that allows posting
 of published articles in digital archives.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As potential reviewers, you might consider Roger Peng (Johns Hopkins Biostatisti
cs), Scott Zeger (Johns Hopkins Biostatistics), Thomas Lumley (Univ.
 Washington Biostatistics), Paul Gustafson (Univ.
 British Columbia Statistics), Jon Wakefield (Univ.
 Washington Biostatistics), Lance Waller (Emory Biostatistics).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thank you for consideration of the manuscript.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Signature
Christopher J.
 Paciorek
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Assistant Professor, Department of Biostatistics
\end_layout

\begin_layout Closing
Sincerely,
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
