#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\input{/accounts/gen/vis/paciorek/latex/paciorekMacros}
\usepackage{times,graphics}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Dear Dr.
 Yang,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We are submitting a revised version of PONE-D-15-41521.
 We thank you and the reviewers for thoughtful comments and suggestions.
 We've responded to the comments point by point below.
 Also, please note that we cite a Goring et al.
 submission to PLOS ONE that we hope will be accepted soon enough that we
 can cite it as PLOS ONE article.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Editor comments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
PLOS style requirements
\emph default
: We believe we have satisfied the style requirements.
 Please let me know of anything we have overlooked.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Copyright and figures
\emph default
: With regard to figure copyright, all three figures were produced by me
 using open source software and results from our analysis and do not include
 any Google images.
 If you have further concerns about them, please let me know.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Maps and proprietary data
\emph default
: Similarly, the figures are of course maps, but they show results from
 our analyses and do not contain proprietary data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Data archiving and PLOS data policy
\emph default
: We have placed the output results and the two input datasets with NIS,
 and this is now detailed in the revised manuscript (lines 97, 100-101,
 446).
 With regard specifically to the township data, these are data collated
 by one of the co-authors, Dr.
 Cogbill, and he has agreed to release them publicly as one of the datasets
 archived with NIS.
 This response also pertains to Reviewer #1's comment that we did not adhere
 to the PLOS data policy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Reviewer #1 comments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Page 6, in "Gaussian process approximation" - could you provide a few sentences'
 justification for why the Q matrix was defined this way?
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
Response: The definition of the Q matrix follows directly from the technical
 specification of the statistical representation given in [21].
 There is not space to go into a lot of detail and we feel it wouldn't be
 appropriate given the subject of the manuscript, but we've added a clause
 to make clear that the definition of Q is a special case of the model represent
ation found in [21] (see lines 233-234).
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Pages 6-7 - why does alpha_p have different expectations in the two models
 (0 in CAR, miu_p in SPDE)? 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
We neglected to note that the CAR model mean is taken to be 0 because the
 model corresponds to an improper prior on the mean, as is well known in
 the spatial statistics literature (e.g.
 Section 3.3.1 of the Banerjee et al.
 [20] reference).
 We've added a sentence to clarify this (lines 210-211).
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Page 10, Lines 340-345 - could you explicitly write out the formulae for
 RMSPE and MAE?
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
Yes, this is a good idea given the potential confusion in what is meant
 by weighting here.
 Please see the added equations at the bottom of page 10.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Could you speculate on why the two types of comparisons (posterior mean
 of metrics, versus metrics for the posterior mean distributions) do not
 agree? 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
This is a good question, but it's hard to say anything definitive, and we
 would prefer not to add any text on top of what we already say.
 First, as we mention in the manuscript, the predictions and overall performance
 for the two models are quite similar, so one should probably not read too
 much into what are fairly small differences.
 Second, the posterior mean of the metric accounts for the full predictive
 distribution of the model, while the posterior mean predictions do not,
 as we mention in the manuscript.
 It's not too surprising that there is some disparity on what are somewhat
 different metrics given the relatively small differences in prediction
 performance of the two models.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Tables 1-5 show the relative performance of the two models under different
 scenarios.
 What might be more relevant to users, however, is their absolute performance.
 How capable are the models to accurately predict the empirical pattern,
 especially when data are scare?
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
To consider absolute performance, the MAE, RMSE, coverage and mean/median
 interval lengths can all be interpreted on an absolute basis for each model,
 without reference to the other model.
 MAE indicates the average difference between a prediction and the held-out
 value, while RMSE is based on the squared deviations between prediction
 and held-out value.
 Both of these can be interpreted as errors that lie in the (0,1) interval
 on which probabilities lie.
 Coverage can be interpreted relative to the gold standard of 95% for a
 95% interval and the lengths of intervals can be interpreted relative to
 the fact that probabilities are in (0,1).
 The hold-out experiment (particularly the 95% held-out cells) are intended
 to assess both absolute and relative performance when data are scarce.
 We have added a sentence noting that these metrics can be interpreted in
 an absolute sense (lines 390-392).
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Section*
Reviewer #2 comments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
The manuscript is technically very sound.
 I have two major suggestions for further improvement.
 Firstly, the methods are quite technical and many readers will not be able
 to follow the details.
 To some extent this is unavoidable, as most data users will be unfamiliar
 with Bayesian spatial modelling.
 However, it could help to provide additional plain-language descriptions
 of how the model works.
 The authors have done this in some places, and below I’ve indicated areas
 where more could be added.
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
We've responded to the specific suggestions below for adding plain-language
 descriptions (see point 4 below), as well as additional such description
 in lines 181-184, 186-187, 196-198, 199-200, 3 lines between lines 223
 and 224, 251-254.
 In addition we've added a paragraph near the start of the Statistical Model
 section (lines 148-157) that gives a high-level plain language description
 of the Bayesian model.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Secondly, the discussion is very short and provides only a cursory interpretatio
n of the results.
 I don’t expect the authors to describe the map patterns in depth, but the
 discussion should provide further interpretation of the estimated uncertainty.
 For example: What was the overall magnitude of the uncertainty? How significant
 (meaningful) is this? How is uncertainty affected by the choice of spatial
 model? How did it depend on data density and format (gridded vs township
 level)? How well can we estimate composition in grid cells with missing
 data? Does the uncertainty vary among species?
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
We've added several paragraphs to the beginning of the discussion to interpret
 results with an emphasis on considering the uncertainty in the estimated
 composition.
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
L65 This discontinuous Quebec township appears in Fig 1 but not Fig 2 or
 3.
 Most of the language in the paper refers to data across the “northeastern
 United States”, so it is unclear whether the Quebec data are part of the
 analysis and results or not.
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
We do not make predictions outside our core states, but since the Quebec
 township is near to our core domain (in particular the northern border
 of Vermont, which has incomplete data in that area), we included the data
 as it can help inform composition in that area of Vermont.
 The one township in northern Delaware is analogous.
 We've added some language to this effect in the text (lines 66-69).
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
L156 (spatial GP), L173 (MRF), start of p.6 (CAR), L193 (Matern correlation
 function), L201 (Lindgren approximation), L223 (multinomial probit).
 Adding plain-language explanations for these various terms would make the
 methods more accessible to readers, especially those unfamiliar with Bayesian
 spatial modelling.
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
We've added clauses to add a plain-language interpretation of these (lines
 186-187 [spatial GP], 199-200 [MRF], below line 223 [Matern], 181-184 [multinom
ial probit]), with the exception of the Lindgren approximation -- this is
 simply a mathematical approximation to a GP, as we already say.
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
L286 The description given does not sound like cross-validation, unless
 the fitting/testing process was performed repeatedly on different folds.
 The current description reads like a basic hold-out validation test (i.e.,
 random data held out only once).
 Also, it seems that these validation experiments were separate from the
 main data product, which I presume included all data.
 Some clarification is required.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
Yes, good point, that was poorly-worded.
 This was a train/test split (i.e., evaluation by holding out a fixed subset
 of the data), not cross-validation.
 We've reworded as appropriate (lines 321, 323, 328, 403).
 And in the description of the data product we have added a clause to indicate
 all the data were used for the main product (lines 433-434).
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
L390 It would be helpful to see a visual example of these edge effects.
 Might also be useful for showing fine details for a portion of the maps
 in Figs.
 2-3.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
The edge effects only occur in the SPDE model, which we do not use for the
 data product.
 Given that this is an alternative model, we are reluctant to add additional
 figures to illustrate this point, but if the editor would like us to, we
 can do so.
 We note that we provide the maps to the publisher as EPS/PDF vectorized
 graphics, so viewers can always zoom in to see fine details in figures
 2-3.
 Also the Shiny application that we reference allows one to zoom in without
 losing resolution.
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
L396-399 Repeats info from methods at L362.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
Good catch.
 We have removed the language from what was lines 396-399 (now lines 433-434),
 simply referring back to what was line 362 (now lines 399-402).
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Fig 1 Why are WV and MD plotted if they have no data?
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
This was simply a default in our plotting code, with all state boundaries
 within our rectangular window plotted.
 We've removed state boundaries for states not in our core domain.
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
You might consider a panel showing the relative error as well (sd/mean).
 Currently, the third column of panels reflects that uncertainty increases
 with the estimated/observed mean.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
This is an interesting idea and we looked at adding a fourth column to Figure
 2.
 However, we have large areas in which the mean for a given taxon is very
 close to zero, which blows up the coefficient of variation.
 The result is that the areas with low mean are the ones that stand out.
 One possibility is to mask out these areas, but this would seemingly involve
 some somewhat arbitrary choices so we've chosen to stay with the plot as
 is.
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\end_body
\end_document
